.. ## Copyright (c) Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC and other
.. ## Axom Project Contributors. See top-level LICENSE and COPYRIGHT
.. ## files for dates and other details.
.. ##
.. ## SPDX-License-Identifier: (BSD-3-Clause)

.. _linearize-curves:

*****************
Linearize Curves
*****************

``quest::LinearizeCurves`` converts 2D NURBS contour geometry into a
``mint::SEGMENT`` mesh. This is useful when a downstream workflow wants a
discrete polyline approximation instead of evaluating directly on the original
curved representation.

Quest provides two linearization strategies:

* ``getLinearMeshUniform()`` samples each knot span with a fixed number of
  segments. This gives predictable resolution and is often a good default when
  the caller wants simple control over the approximation density.
* ``getLinearMeshNonUniform()`` refines adaptively until the polyline length is
  within a requested percent error of a higher-resolution arc-length estimate.
  This tends to place more segments where the curve needs them most.

The winding-number example uses both modes:

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/quest_winding_number_2d.cpp
   :start-after: _linearize_curves_start
   :end-before: _linearize_curves_end
   :language: C++

In practice, the uniform method is a good fit when a workflow already uses a
``segments per knot span`` control, while the adaptive method is more natural
when the caller wants to bound approximation error rather than choose a fixed
sampling density.

Revolved Volume
---------------

The same utility also provides a revolved-volume helper for contour-based
shapes. This computes the volume generated by revolving the original curves
about the axis of revolution using quadrature on the curve representation,
rather than estimating the volume from an already linearized mesh.

.. literalinclude:: ../../tests/quest_linearize_curves.cpp
   :start-after: _revolved_volume_start
   :end-before: _revolved_volume_end
   :language: C++
